**** *Label_CA3021536.txt *Country_C *CIB3_A61 *CIB1_A *CIB4_A61F *Date_2017 *Applicant_physiol-s-a *Kind_A1 *InventCountry_FR-BE *ApplCountry_B-E 
1. Flexible intraocular lens injection device, comprising - a tubular body (1) that has a casing (2) and an axial cavity as well as a proximal end (5) and a distal end (6), - a plunger (3) inserted into said axial cavity, at the above-mentioned proximal end (5), and movable in this cavity along an axial direction (4), - a barrel (7) arranged at said distal end (6) of the tubular body (1) and having an ejection cavity in communication with the axial cavity of the tubular body (1), this ejection cavity having a cross-section that decreases in the opposite direction to the tubular body (1), and - a housing (8) in the axial cavity of the tubular body (1) for receiving a storage shuttle (9) containing a flexible intraocular lens (10), characterised in that the casing (2) of the tubular body has a side opening, which gives access from the outside to said housing (8), so as to allow the insertion of the storage shuttle (9) into the latter, and in that the above- mentioned casing (2) carries a first outwardly-protruding rotary attachment means (11) capable of cooperating with a second rotary attachment means (12) provided on the storage shuttle (9), so that to allow, in cooperation position of the two above- mentioned rotary attachment means, a rotation of the storage shuttle (9) around an axis of rotation parallel to said axial direction (4) of the axial cavity of the tubular body (1), between a first position of the storage shuttle (9) where it is outside the tubular body (1) and a second position of the storage shuttle (9) where it is loaded in the above-mentioned housing (8).
2. Injection device according to claim 1, wherein the casing (2) of the tubular body (1) carries, as first rotary attachment means, a hollow cylinder that has a longitudinal axis parallel to said axial direction (4), and into which can be pressed a rod provided on the storage shuttle (9), as second rotary attachment means.
3. Injection device according to claim 1, wherein the casing (2) of the tubular body (1) carries, as first rotary attachment means, a rod (11) axially parallel to said axial direction (4), and around which can be pressed a hollow |EPO DP num="14"| cylinder (12) provided on the storage shuttle (9), as second rotary attachment means.
4. Injection device according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the housing (8) in the axial cavity of the tubular body (1) has first snap-fastening means (17) capable of cooperating with second snap- fastening means (16) provided on the storage shuttle (9) in such a way as to block the storage shuttle (9) in its above-mentioned second position.
5. Storage shuttle (9) for flexible intraocular lens injection device according to any of claims 1 to 4, characterised in that it comprises - a shuttle body (13) having a shuttle cavity for receiving a flexible intraocular lens (10), - an outlet opening (14), which is intended, in the above-mentioned second position of the storage shuttle (9), to allow for a communication between the shuttle cavity and the ejection cavity of the barrel (7), and - an inlet opening (15), which is intended, in the above-mentioned second position of the storage shuttle (9), to allow for a communication between the shuttle cavity and the axial cavity of the tubular body (1) wherein said plunger (3) is, and in that the shuttle body (13) outwardly-protruding carries said second rotary attachment means (12) capable of cooperating with said first rotary attachment means (11) carried by the casing (2) of the tubular body (1).
6. Storage shuttle (9) according to claim 5, characterised in that the shuttle body (13) outwardly carries said second snap-fastening means (16) capable of cooperating with said first snap-fastening means (17) of the housing (8) of the tubular body (1) of the injection device according to claim 4, in order to block the storage shuttle (9) in its above-mentioned second position.
7. Storage shuttle (9) according to one or the other of claims 5 and 6, characterised in that it has a gripping means (18) to be grasped in order to actuate said rotation of the storage shuttle (9) between its first position and its second position.
8. Injection assembly comprising an injection device according to any of claims 1 to 4 and a storage shuttle (9) according to any of claims 5 to 7. |EPO DP num="15"|
9. Sterile container (19) comprising a storage shuttle (9) according to any of claims 5 to 7.
10. Sterile container (19) according to the preceding claim, characterised in that the sterile container (19) is provided with a closeable opening (20).
11. Sterile container (19) according to the preceding claim, characterised in that the sterile container (19) has a shuttle retaining portion (21) wherein the shuttle body (13) is held with the inlet opening (15) of the storage shuttle (9) and said second rotary attachment means (12) of the latter, oriented towards the closeable opening (20) of the container (19), and a pushing portion (24) for receiving the tubular body (1) of the injection device, provided with its barrel (7), in such a way that, in a position of pushing of said tubular body (1) into this pushing portion (24), said first rotary attachment means (11) thereof cooperates with said second rotary attachment means (12) of the storage shuttle (9), by allowing as such a taking of the storage shuttle (9) outside the sterile container (19).
12. Sterile container (19) according to the preceding claim, characterised in that it further comprises a sterile aqueous medium.
13. Sterile container (19) according to the preceding claim, characterised in that the shuttle retaining portion (21) has a ribbed bottom allowing for a passage of liquid of the aqueous medium through the outlet opening (14) of the storage shuttle (9) as well as through the inlet opening (15) of the latter.
14. Sterile container (19) according to any one of claims 11 to 13, characterised in that, in said position of pushing of the tubular body (1) in the sterile container (19), the barre! (7) has no contact with the container (19).
15. Method for loading a storage shuttle (9) according to any of claims 5 to 7 into a flexible intraocular lens injection device according to any of claims 1 to 4, characterised in that it comprises - an opening of a sterile container (19) according to any one of claims 11 to 14 containing the storage shuttle (9) provided with a flexible intraocular lens, |EPO DP num="16"| - an inserting of the tubular body (1) of the injection device, provided with its barrel (7), into said pushing portion of the sterile container (19), with cooperation between the first rotary attachment means (11) of the tubular body (1) and the second rotary attachment means (12) of the storage shuttle (9), - a taking outside the sterile container (19) of the tubular body (1) and of the storage shuttle (9) attached to one another, - a rotation of the storage shuttle (9) between its above-mentioned first position outside the tubular body (1) and its above-mentioned second position where it is loaded inside the above-mentioned housing (8) of the tubular body (1) through the above-mentioned side opening provided in the tubular body (1), the intraocular lens being in this second position of the storage shuttle (9) ready to be moved and wound under the thrust of the plunger (3) into the ejection cavity of the barre! (7), and then ejected outside.